In preparation for the ARMISTICE concert on November 11th, the Glee Club has commissioned a three-movement piece titled DULCE ET DECORUM EST, composed by conductor/composer, Dr. Anthony J Maglione. This work illustrates the legitimate terrors of modern warfare, as we commemorate the ending of WWI. We are extremely honored for this opportunity! Below is a spotlight on both Maglione and his piece.

DR. ANTHONY J MAGLIONE:

Maglione is a graduate of Westminster Choir College of Rider University, East Carolina University, and the University of California, Los Angeles. He is the Director of Choral Studies at William Jewell College where, under his direction, the Concert Choir was Runner-Up (2nd Place) for the American Prize in Choral Performance, College/University Division. In addition to his responsibilities at William Jewell College, he serves as Artist-in-Residence and Choir Master at St. Mary’s Episcopal Church in Kansas City, Conductor Emeritus of the Freelance Ensemble Artists of NJ Symphony Orchestra. From 2012 to 2018 he served as Director of the Greater Kansas City AGO Schola Cantorum.

An active composer, Anthony’s choral works are growing in popularity and are published on GIA’s “Evoking Sound” choral series. In the last several years his music has appeared at state and national-level conventions, on TV, in video games, and has been recorded on Gothic Records, Albany Records, and Centaur Records. In 2014 and 2015, Anthony was honored as a Semi-Finalist and Finalist (respectively) for the American Prize in Composition, Professional Choral Division and was recently awarded the 2016-2017 William Jewell College Spencer Family Sabbatical, a year-long fully funded sabbatical in order to compose two new large-scale works for choir, soloists and chamber orchestra. Anthony's cantata "The Wedding of Solomon" premiered at the 2018 American Guild of Organists National Convention. He is currently slated for several more premieres throughout the United States during the remainder of 2018 and 2019.

As a tenor, Anthony has appeared with Kansas City Baroque Consortium, Sunflower Baroque, Spire Chamber Ensemble, and currently performs and records with The Same Stream Choir. This year, he joined the roster of Kantorei KC, a professional choir based in Kansas City.

https://www.facebook.com/anthonymaglionecomposer
https://www.instagram.com/maglione.tony/
 
DULCE ET DECORUM EST:
 
Dulce et Decorum Est was commissioned for the UNI Varsity Men’s Glee Club to be premiered this year in honor of the 100th anniversary of Armistice Day. The work is a three-movement setting of Wilfred Owen’s poem by the same name which depicts the horrors of a gas attack during World War I. The first movement, “Bent Double”, is a heavy, slow march following a group of weary soldiers as they trudge through mud to find rest away from the battlefield. The second movement, “Gas!”, dissolves quickly into dissonant chaos as the troops are subjected to a gas attack in which they find themselves fumbling to don their masks. When the smoke clears, they realize that one of their crew was unable to find protection in time and they must watch him die. The tone of the work changes quickly to almost a chorale for the doomed soldier. “The Old Lie” refers to the famous Latin phrase “Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori” which means “How sweet and honorable it is to die for one’s country”. Owen ironically uses the first few words of this phrase as the title to the poem and based on this description, it is not sweet, but gruesome to perish in war. Maglione illustrates this irony by taking a beautiful sonority and repeating it over and over with growing fervor until the work ends with shouts.

Thank you, Dr. Maglione! We look forward to debuting your piece on the Gallagher Bluedorn stage.

(Photo credits to Rivas Photography)