We lost a legend last Sunday. Lee Thompson passed away in Cary, North Carolina, due to complications from an infection. He was 67 years old. As a student at UNI in the 1970s, Lee was very involved in the UNI Varsity Men’s Glee Club, and served as president of the group. During a time of transition, Lee was instrumental in the hiring of Robert Byrnes, who replaced Dr. Les Hale as director. Dr. Hale considered Lee Thompson as “the critical person between directors, and literally the man responsible for the continuation of the group.” Hale said, “I believe that neither Bob (Byrnes) nor the Glee Club would have survived without him.”

As an alumnus, Lee would go on to serve the Glee Club in everything from lighting director on the Christmas Shows to serving on the board of directors for the Les Hale Endowment Fund. For over 23 years, Lee served as the LHEF’s only treasurer, helping to raise the group’s endowment to over $362,000 by the fall of 2020.

Lee loved music, and he loved the Glee Club. Lee and his wife, Carol, donated over $10,000 to the Glee Club over the years, and countless hours of their time. An official award was established in 2015 to honor Lee. “The Lee Thompson ‘Pillars of the Glee Club’ Award” is presented each year to a graduating senior who best represents and promotes the values of excellence, tradition, and camaraderie within the Glee Club.

Lee said, “I love where the Glee Club has come. I doubt that any of the early folks, me included, could have envisioned where we are today. Les laid the foundations, gathered in the folks with a passion to sing and introduced a bit of irreverence to the whole deal. Bob had the vision to introduce the Christmas Shows, the European Tours and the Les Hale Endowment Fund. And we’re fortunate to have current people with the ethic to honor the past and create the future. To establish new traditions, to try to understand the history of the group, to build upon these years of Camaraderie. Every single Glee Club member has contributed to it all. Good for us.”

Lee was a lion for the UNI Varsity Men’s Glee Club, and he will be sorely missed.

Lee is survived by his wife Carol, children Adam (Joanna) and Erin, and 2 grandchildren. Per his request, Lee will be cremated and his ashes scattered near the family’s summer home, “The Other Place”, off the coast of Bald Head Island, North Carolina. 

In lieu of flowers, the family asks that you honor Lee’s memory with a donation to The UNI Varsity Men’s Glee Club. Gifts in memory of Lee can be made to the University of Northern Iowa Men’s Glee Club/Les Hale Endowed Fund at https://uni-foundation.org.  Click on “Give Now!” and indicate it’s for the Lee Thompson Memorial Fund.  Checks should be made payable to the UNI Foundation and sent to UNI Foundation, 121 Commons, Cedar Falls, IA 50614-0239.  If you have any questions, please contact Dan Breitbach at the Foundation (3190 273-7727 or cell (319) 360-2436.